(DOCS-5528) FIPS Agent (#18283)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/agent/guide/agent-fips-proxy.md

---
title: Datadog FIPS Compliance
kind: Guide
disable_toc: false
further_reading:
- link: "agent/proxy"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Agent Proxy Configuration"
algolia:
  rank: 80

>   tags: ["fips", "fips proxy", "compliance"]

Reviewer: May be good to add "fedramp" and "govcloud" as tags here if they're generic tags

---

{{< site-region region="us,us3,us5,eu,ap1" >}}

> <div class="alert alert-warning">The Datadog FIPS proxy is only available in the US1-FED region.</a></div>

Reviewer 2: Can we also flag that this is Public Beta state to set expectations with customers. Thanks!

{{< /site-region >}}

> The Datadog FIPS proxy ensures that communication between the Datadog Agent and Datadog uses FIPS-compliant encryption.

Reviewer: If we're considering the FIPS proxy as a product, it may be more appropriate to call it universally "Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy" including capitalization (or something similar) but that's more of a subjective call

> The Datadog FIPS proxy is a separately-distributed component that is deployed on the same host as the Datadog Agent. The proxy acts as an intermediary between the Agent and Datadog. The Agent communicates with the Datadog FIPS proxy, which encrypts payloads using a FIPS 140-2 validated cryptographic module and relays the payloads to Datadog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Datadog FIPS proxy is a separately-distributed component that is deployed on the same host as the Datadog Agent. The proxy acts as an intermediary between the Agent and Datadog intake. The Agent communicates with the Datadog FIPS proxy, which encrypts payloads using FIPS 140-2 validated cryptography and relays the payloads to Datadog.
```

## Supported platforms and limitations

> The Datadog FIPS proxy's compliance is based on its use of the FIPS 140-2 validated [Cryptographic Module - Certificate #4024][1]. See the related [security policy][2] for information around validated operating environments and restrictions. It is ultimately the end user's responsibility to ensure operating environment compliance with the security policy and wider FIPS guidance.

Reviewer: This second sentence around user/customer's responsibility needs to be highlighted and placed prominently

> Supported platforms (64-bit x86 only):

Reviewer 3: We should list the supported containerized platforms as well

- RHEL >= 7
- Debian >= 8
- Ubuntu >= 14.04

> **Note**: The Datadog FIPS proxy does not support Cluster Agent and Serverless Monitoring.

Reviewer 4: We'll need to bring more details about the Cluster Agent since EKS/ECS were added

Reviewer: +1. The cluster-agent is supported to a degree now for outbound communication (cluster-agent -> Datadog) but not the CLC runners to cluster-agent.

Author: I've added this to the latest commit

## Prerequisites

- TCP port range: 9803 to 9814
- Datadog Agent >= v7.41

## Install the Agent with FIPS support

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Bare metal / VM" %}}
To install the Datadog Agent with the FIPS proxy, add `DD_FIPS_MODE=1` to the one-step install instructions on the [Datadog Agent Integration][1] page. For example:

```shell
DD_API_KEY=<DD_API_KEY> \
DD_SITE="ddog-gov.com" \
DD_FIPS_MODE=1 \
bash -c "$(curl -L \
   https://s3.amazonaws.com/dd-agent/scripts/install_script_agent7.sh)"
```

Setting the `DD_FIPS_MODE` environment variable installs the FIPS package along with the Agent, and configures the Agent to use the proxy. There are no additional configuration steps if you're using this method, but you should [verify the installation](#verify-the-installation).

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#agent/
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Amazon ECS" %}}

For instructions on installing the FIPS proxy on Amazon ECS, see the [FIPS proxy for GOVCLOUD environments][1].

[1]:/containers/amazon_ecs/#fips-proxy-for-govcloud-environments
{{% /tab %}}

> {{% tab "Helm on Amazon EKS" %}}

Reviewer: This section (EKS/Helm) should be second and ECS as third given the likely prevalence of environments in the wild

Set the following values in your `values.yaml` file:

```yaml
fips:
  enabled: true
  port: 9803
  portRange: 15
  use_https: false
  resources: {}
  local_address: "127.0.0.1"
  image:
    name: fips-proxy
    tag: 0.5.2

>     pullPolicy: IfNotPresent

Reviewer: I think none of the settings except `fips.enabled` are required as the defaults should already specify them but. we may want to add a note that there may be other relevant settings based on their deployment/environment.

```

For information on the `fips` setting, see the [configuration section](#configure-the-agent-to-use-the-fips-proxy)

{{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

## Add the FIPS proxy to an existing Agent

> Follow the steps below to add the FIPS proxy to an existing Agent installation.

Reviewer 3: The tabs below only list host-based installs, we should be explicit about what a customer is supposed to do on ECS and Helm when they already have an agent deployment (even if it's just to point them to the previous section).

Reviewer 4: I believe the frontend is still not able to handle nested tabs, but if it's possible then we should move the `Install the FIPS proxy package` and `Configure the Agent to use the FIPS proxy` sections under the `Bare Metal / VM` tab imho.

Author: I'm going to keep fresh install and existing installation in separate sections, but add tabs to each. I'll push that up soon. I'm going to need help on the instructions for adding the proxy to existing helm and ECS deployments.

### Install the FIPS proxy package

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Debian" %}}
1. Run the following commands to install the FIPS proxy:
   ```shell
   apt-get update
   apt-get install datadog-fips-proxy
   ```

> 1. The first time you perform an upgrade, copy the example configuration file to the appropriate location and restart the proxy. You do not need to copy the configuration in subsequent upgrades:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The first time you perform an upgrade, copy the example configuration file to the appropriate location and restart the proxy. You do not need to copy the configuration in subsequent upgrades unless there are significant changes in the upstream proxy configuration:
```

This change should be carried over to other copy/pasted sections

   ```shell
   sudo cp /etc/datadog-fips-proxy/datadog-fips-proxy.cfg.example \
      /etc/datadog-fips-proxy/datadog-fips-proxy.cfg
   sudo chown dd-agent:dd-agent \
      /etc/datadog-fips-proxy/datadog-fips-proxy.cfg
   sudo chmod 640 /etc/datadog-fips-proxy/datadog-fips-proxy.cfg
   sudo systemctl restart datadog-fips-proxy
   ```

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "SLES" %}}
1. Run the following commands to install the FIPS proxy:
   ```shell
   zypper refresh datadog
   zypper install datadog-fips-proxy
   ```

1. The first time you perform an upgrade, copy the example configuration file to the appropriate location and restart the proxy. You do not need to copy the configuration in subsequent upgrades:
   ```shell
   sudo cp /etc/datadog-fips-proxy/datadog-fips-proxy.cfg.example \
      /etc/datadog-fips-proxy/datadog-fips-proxy.cfg
   sudo chown dd-agent:dd-agent \
      /etc/datadog-fips-proxy/datadog-fips-proxy.cfg
   sudo chmod 640 /etc/datadog-fips-proxy/datadog-fips-proxy.cfg
   sudo systemctl restart datadog-fips-proxy
   ```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Configure the Agent to use the FIPS proxy

> The Datadog FIPS proxy package comes pre-configured for use with the US1-FED datacenter. If you're upgrading an existing Datadog Agent, you must configure the Agent to use the proxy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Datadog FIPS proxy package comes pre-configured for use with the US1-FED datacenter. If you're upgrading an existing Datadog Agent, you MUST configure the Agent to use the proxy.
```

but maybe there's other ways to emphasize this word

To configure the Agent to use the FIPS proxy, set `fips.enabled` to `true` and `fips.https` to `false` in the [Agent configuration file][4]:

```yaml
fips:
  enabled: true
  https: false
```

The `fips` setting is available in Agent versions >= 7.41. When the setting is enabled, the Datadog Agent redirects all of its communications to the Datadog FIPS proxy. This setting ignores custom URL options, such as `dd_url`.

> The `https` option is set to false because the Agent uses HTTP to communicate with the proxy. The Datadog FIPS proxy is expected to run on the same host as the Datadog Agent and relies on the host's security for protection of that communication. Host security and hardening are customer responsibilities.

Reviewer: As in the previously similar section, the last sentence is one of those things that should be emphasized

> <div class="alert alert-warning">The <code>fips.enabled</code> setting defaults to <code>false</code> in the Agent. It must be set to <code>true</code> to ensure all communications are forwarded through the Datadog FIPS proxy.</div>

Reviewer: It should be noted here that Agent is not FIPS compliant without this flag set to true

## Verify the installation

Verify that metrics, traces, and logs are correctly reported in the app.

For metrics, run the connectivity diagnostic command and verify that all checks pass:

```shell

> sudo -u dd-agent datadog-agent diagnose datadog-connectivity

Reviewer 3: this only applies to host-based installs, should also cover containerized deployments

```

If you're not seeing metrics, traces, or logs reported in the app, see the [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) section.

## Datadog FIPS proxy logging

The Datadog FIPS proxy logs to journald. To view the logs, run:

```shell
sudo journalctl -u datadog-fips-proxy
```

### journald logs configuration

If you're using [Log Management][5] and want to send the Datadog FIPS proxy logs to Datadog, you must set up the Datadog Agent to read logs from journald.

1. In the Agent's [configuration file][4], set `logs_enabled` to `true` to activate the Logs Agent. In the [configuration directory][6], create a file at `fips_proxy.d/conf.yaml` with the following content:

   ```yaml
   logs:
     - type: journald
       source: datadog-fips-proxy
       include_units:
         - datadog-fips-proxy.service
   ```

1. Make sure that the `dd-agent` user is in the `systemd-journal` group. For more information, see the [journald integration][7] documentation.
1. [Restart the Agent][8].

> ## Troubleshooting

Reviewer: I'd agree. We can have a follow-up to this but for sure the instructions as-is do not carry over to containerized envs 1:1.

To troubleshoot the Datadog FIPS proxy, verify the following:
- The Datadog Agent and Datadog FIPS proxy are running.
- The Datadog Agent can communicate with the Datadog FIPS proxy.
- The Datadog FIPS proxy can communicate with Datadog intake endpoints.

### Check the proxy status

To get information about the state of the Datadog FIPS proxy, run the following command:

```shell
sudo systemctl status datadog-fips-proxy
```

> If the proxy is running, the output should look something like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the proxy is running, the output should look similar to the following:
```

```text
- datadog-fips-proxy.service - Datadog Datadog FIPS proxy
  Loaded: loaded
    (/lib/systemd/system/datadog-fips-proxy.service;
      enabled; vendor preset: enabled)
  Active: active (running) since Tue 2022-07-19 16:21:15 UTC; 1min 6s ago
```

If the proxy status is `inactive (dead)`, launch the Datadog FIPS proxy:

```shell
sudo systemctl start datadog-fips-proxy
```

If the proxy status is `failed`, the Datadog FIPS proxy could not be launched due to an error. Run the following command and search the proxy logs for errors:

```shell
sudo journalctl -u datadog-fips-proxy --no-pager
```

> ### Proxy cannot bing socket

Reviewer: Maybe:
```suggestion
### Proxy cannot bind to the socket
```

> If the proxy logs show a `bind socket` error, the proxy is trying to use a port that is already in use on the host. The Datadog FIPS proxy uses the TCP port range from 9803 up to and including 9814. Ports in this range should be available on the host and not used by other services.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If the proxy logs show a `bind socket` error, the proxy is trying to use a port that is already in use on the host. The Datadog FIPS proxy uses the TCP port range from 9803 up to and including 9816. Ports in this range should be available on the host and not used by other services.
```

[ALERT] (4518) : [/opt/datadog-fips-proxy/embedded/sbin/haproxy.main()] Some protocols failed to start their listeners! Exiting.
```

### Agent is unable to connect to the proxy

To check for network issues, check the logs at `/var/log/datadog/agent.log`, or run:

```shell
datadog-agent diagnose datadog-connectivity
```

Look for errors such as:
```text
connect: connection refused, context deadline exceeded (Client.Timeout exceeded while awaiting headers), or connection reset by peer
```

- Follow the steps in [Check the proxy status](#check-the-proxy-status) to verify that the Datadog FIPS proxy is running.
- Verify that the port range from the proxy matches the one from the Agent.

If the proxy is running and the port range is correct, a local firewall on the machine may be blocking the Agent's access to the proxy. Firewalls should allow connections to TCP ports from 9804 to 9814.

You can use `curl` to verify that the proxy is accessible:

```shell
curl http://localhost:9804/
```

For further assistance, see [Agent Troubleshooting][9].

### Datadog FIPS proxy is unable to connect to Datadog intake

> If there are HTTP errors such as `502` or `503`, or if the proxy returns an empty response, the Datadog FIPS proxy might not be able to forward traffic to the Datadog backend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there are HTTP errors such as `502`, `503`, or if the proxy returns an empty response, the Datadog FIPS proxy might not be able to forward traffic to the Datadog backend.
```

Verify the Datadog FIPS proxy logs with:

```shell
sudo journalctl -u datadog-fips-proxy --no-pager
```

Check the logs for errors such as:

```text
haproxy[292759]: [WARNING] (292759) : Server
datadog-api/mothership3 is DOWN, reason: Layer4 timeout, vcheck duration: 2000ms. 0 active and 0 backup servers left. 0 sessions active, 0 requeued, 0 remaining in queue.
[ALERT] (292759) : backend 'datadog-api' has no server available!
```

or

```text
haproxy[1808]: [WARNING] (1808) : Server
datadog-metrics/mothership2 is DOWN, reason: Layer4
connection problem, info: "Connection refused", check duration: 0ms. 0 active and 0 backup servers left. 0
sessions active, 0 requeued, 0 remaining in queue.
haproxy[1808]: [ALERT] (1808) : backend 'datadog-metrics' has no server available!
```

> These errors indicate that the Datadog FIPS proxy is not able to contact backend systems, possibly due to being blocked by a firewall or due to another network issue. Datadog FIPS proxy requires internet access to the Datadog intake endpoints. You can find the IP addresses for these endpoints [through the API][10].

Reviewer 4: The network traffic guide is linked just below but we can add the anchor if needed

<div class="alert alert-warning">The Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy is only available in the US1-FED region.</a></div>
{{< /site-region >}}

The Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy ensures that communication between the Datadog Agent and Datadog uses FIPS-compliant encryption.

The Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy is a separately-distributed component that is deployed on the same host as the Datadog Agent. The proxy acts as an intermediary between the Agent and Datadog intake. The Agent communicates with the Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy, which encrypts payloads using a FIPS 140-2 validated cryptography and relays the payloads to Datadog.

## Supported platforms and limitations

The Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy's compliance is based on its use of the FIPS 140-2 validated [Cryptographic Module - Certificate #4024][1]. See the related [security policy][2] for information around validated operating environments and restrictions.

**It is ultimately the end user's responsibility to ensure operating environment compliance with the security policy and wider FIPS guidance.**

Supported platforms (64-bit x86 only):

|||
| ---  | ----------- |
| Bare metal and VMs | RHEL >= 7<br>Debian >= 8<br>Ubuntu >= 14.04|

> | Cloud and container| AWS EC2<br>AWS EKS (Helm)|

Reviewer 4: I think it's AWS ECS here ? 
```suggestion
| Cloud and container| AWS ECS<br>AWS EKS (Helm)|
```

The Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy does **not** support the following:

- Serverless Monitoring
- Communication between Cluster Agent and Node Agents
- Agent integrations

> - Products not defined in the [Datadog Agent][7]

Reviewer 5: So, the list at that link are supported? You're making the reader parse a double negative here. Maybe start line 39 with "The blabla Proxy supports (only?) products defined in the [Datadog Agent][7]. It does not support the following:"

Reviewer 5: Or does the person need to uncomment the ports they want in that list? We don't usually dump people into code like this. Maybe we should just list the products that are supported? (or list the ones that aren't supported?)

- Outbound communication to anything other than GovCloud

## Prerequisites

> - TCP port range: 9803 to 9816

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- TCP port range available: 9803 to 9816
```

- Datadog Agent >= v7.41

## Install the Agent with FIPS support

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Bare metal / VM" %}}

### Install the Agent on a new host

To install the Datadog Agent with the Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy, add `DD_FIPS_MODE=1` to the one-step install instructions on the [Datadog Agent Integration][1] page. For example:

```shell
DD_API_KEY=<DD_API_KEY> \
DD_SITE="ddog-gov.com" \
DD_FIPS_MODE=1 \
bash -c "$(curl -L \
   https://s3.amazonaws.com/dd-agent/scripts/install_script_agent7.sh)"
```

Setting the `DD_FIPS_MODE` environment variable installs the FIPS package along with the Agent, and configures the Agent to use the proxy. There are no additional configuration steps if you're using this method, but you should [verify the installation](#verify-your-installation).

> ### Add the FIPS proxy to an existing Agent

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Add the Datadog Agent FIPS proxy to an existing Agent
```

> Follow the steps below to add the FIPS proxy to an existing Agent installation.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Follow the steps below to add the Datadog Agent FIPS proxy to an existing Agent installation.
```

> #### Install the FIPS proxy package

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#### Install the Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy package
```

> 1. Run the following commands to install the FIPS proxy:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Run the following commands to install the Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy:
```

   Debian:
   ```shell
   apt-get update && apt-get install datadog-fips-proxy
   ```
   RHEL and Fedora:
   ```shell
   yum makecache && yum install datadog-fips-proxy
   ```
   SLES:
   ```shell
   zypper refresh datadog && zypper install datadog-fips-proxy
   ```

1. The first time you perform an upgrade, copy the example configuration file to the appropriate location and restart the proxy. You do not need to copy the configuration in subsequent upgrades unless there are significant changes in the upstream proxy configuration:
   ```shell
   sudo cp /etc/datadog-fips-proxy/datadog-fips-proxy.cfg.example \
      /etc/datadog-fips-proxy/datadog-fips-proxy.cfg
   sudo chown dd-agent:dd-agent \
      /etc/datadog-fips-proxy/datadog-fips-proxy.cfg
   sudo chmod 640 /etc/datadog-fips-proxy/datadog-fips-proxy.cfg
   sudo systemctl restart datadog-fips-proxy
   ```

> #### Configure the Agent to use the FIPS proxy

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#### Configure the Agent to use the Datadog Agent FIPS proxy
```

The `https` option is set to `false` because the Agent uses HTTP to communicate with the proxy. The Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy is expected to run on the same host as the Datadog Agent and relies on the host's security for protection of that communication.

**Host security and hardening are customer responsibilities.**

<div class="alert alert-warning">The <code>fips.enabled</code> setting defaults to <code>false</code> in the Agent. It must be set to <code>true</code> to ensure all communications are forwarded through the Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy.<br><br><strong>If <code>fips.enabled</code> is not set to <code>true</code>, the Agent is not FIPS Compliant</strong>.</div>

### Verify your installation

Verify that metrics, traces, and logs are correctly reported in the app.

For metrics, run the connectivity diagnostic command and verify that all checks pass:

```shell
sudo -u dd-agent datadog-agent diagnose datadog-connectivity
```

If you're not seeing metrics, traces, or logs reported in the app, see the [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting-a-bare-metal-or-vm-installation) section.

### View logs

```shell
sudo journalctl -u datadog-fips-proxy
```

#### journald logs configuration

> If you're using [Log Management][3] and want to send the Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy logs to Datadog, you must set up the Datadog Agent to read logs from journald.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
If you use [Log Management][3] and want to send the Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy logs to Datadog, set up the Datadog Agent to read logs from journald.
```

1. In the Agent's [configuration file][2], set `logs_enabled` to `true` to activate the Logs Agent. In the [configuration directory][4], create a file at `fips_proxy.d/conf.yaml` with the following content:

   ```yaml
   logs:
     - type: journald
       source: datadog-fips-proxy
       include_units:
         - datadog-fips-proxy.service
   ```

1. Make sure that the `dd-agent` user is in the `systemd-journal` group. For more information, see the [journald integration][5] documentation.
1. [Restart the Agent][6].

> [1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#agent/

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#agent
```

[2]: /agent/guide/agent-configuration-files/#agent-main-configuration-file
[3]: /logs/
[4]: /agent/guide/agent-configuration-files/#agent-configuration-directory
[5]: /integrations/journald/#configuration
[6]: /agent/guide/agent-commands/#start-stop-and-restart-the-agent
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Helm on Amazon EKS" %}}
Set the following values in your `values.yaml` file:

```yaml
fips:
  enabled: true
  use_https: false
```

The `fips` setting is available in Agent versions >= 7.41. When the setting is enabled, the Datadog Agent redirects all of its communications to the Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy. This setting ignores custom URL options, such as `dd_url`.

> The `use_https` option is set to `false` because the Agent uses HTTP to communicate with the proxy. The Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy is expected to run on the same host as the Datadog Agent and relies on the host's security for protection of that communication. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The `use_https` option is set to `false` because the Agent uses HTTP to communicate with the proxy. The Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy runs on the same host as the Datadog Agent and relies on the host's security for protection of that communication. 
```

> **Host security and hardening are customer responsibilities.**

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
**Host security and hardening are your responsibilities.**
```

<div class="alert alert-warning">The <code>fips.enabled</code> setting defaults to <code>false</code> in the Agent. It must be set to <code>true</code> to ensure all communications are forwarded through the Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy.<br><br><strong>If <code>fips.enabled</code> is not set to <code>true</code>, the Agent is not FIPS Compliant</strong>.</div>

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Amazon ECS" %}}

For instructions on installing the FIPS proxy on Amazon ECS, see [FIPS proxy for GOVCLOUD environments][1].

> [1]:/containers/amazon_ecs/#fips-proxy-for-govcloud-environments

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
[1]: /containers/amazon_ecs/#fips-proxy-for-govcloud-environments
```

Reviewer 5: Also, this anchor doesn't seem to exist yet, but I am assuming that's expected?

Author: Ohhh, so it only exists on US1-FED. That's an interesting repercussion that I hadn't thought of. Hmmm. Do you think we should add some kind of disclaimer to the link text? Or just assume that readers who have got this far are on the US1-FED version?

{{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

> ## Troubleshooting a bare-metal or VM installation

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
## Troubleshooting a host or VM installation
```

To troubleshoot the Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy, verify the following:
- The Datadog Agent and Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy are running.
- The Datadog Agent can communicate with the Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy.
- The Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy can communicate with Datadog intake endpoints.

### Check the proxy status

To get information about the state of the Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy, run the following command:

```shell
sudo systemctl status datadog-fips-proxy
```

If the proxy is running, the output should look similar to the following:
```text

> - datadog-fips-proxy.service - Datadog Datadog FIPS proxy

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- datadog-fips-proxy.service - Datadog FIPS Proxy
```

  Loaded: loaded
    (/lib/systemd/system/datadog-fips-proxy.service;
      enabled; vendor preset: enabled)
  Active: active (running) since Tue 2022-07-19 16:21:15 UTC; 1min 6s ago
```

If the proxy status is `inactive (dead)`, launch the Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy:

```shell
sudo systemctl start datadog-fips-proxy
```

If the proxy status is `failed`, the Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy could not be launched due to an error. Run the following command and search the proxy logs for errors:

```shell
sudo journalctl -u datadog-fips-proxy --no-pager
```

### Proxy cannot bind socket

> If the proxy logs show a `bind socket` error, the proxy is trying to use a port that is already in use on the host. The Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy uses the TCP port range from 9803 up to and including 9816. Ports in this range should be available on the host and not used by other services.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
If the proxy logs show a `bind socket` error, the proxy is trying to use a port that is already in use on the host. The Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy uses the TCP port range from 9803 up to and including 9816. Ports in this range must be available on the host and not used by other services.
```

In the following example, the Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy is unable to bind a socket on port `9804` because the port is already in use:

```text
[ALERT] (4518) : Starting frontend metrics-forwarder: cannot bind socket (Address already in use) [0.0.0.0:9804]
[ALERT] (4518) : [/opt/datadog-fips-proxy/embedded/sbin/haproxy.main()] Some protocols failed to start their listeners! Exiting.
```

### Agent is unable to connect to the proxy

To check for network issues, check the logs at `/var/log/datadog/agent.log`, or run:

```shell
datadog-agent diagnose datadog-connectivity
```

Look for errors such as:
```text
connect: connection refused, context deadline exceeded (Client.Timeout exceeded while awaiting headers), or connection reset by peer
```

- Follow the steps in [Check the proxy status](#check-the-proxy-status) to verify that the Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy is running.
- Verify that the port range from the proxy matches the one from the Agent.

> If the proxy is running and the port range is correct, a local firewall on the machine may be blocking the Agent's access to the proxy. Firewalls should allow connections to TCP ports from 9804 to 9816.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
If the proxy is running and the port range is correct, a local firewall on the machine may be blocking the Agent's access to the proxy. Set your firewall to allow connections to TCP ports from 9804 to 9816.
```

```shell
sudo journalctl -u datadog-fips-proxy --no-pager
```

Check the logs for errors such as:

```text
haproxy[292759]: [WARNING] (292759) : Server
datadog-api/mothership3 is DOWN, reason: Layer4 timeout, vcheck duration: 2000ms. 0 active and 0 backup servers left. 0 sessions active, 0 requeued, 0 remaining in queue.
[ALERT] (292759) : backend 'datadog-api' has no server available!
```

or

```text
haproxy[1808]: [WARNING] (1808) : Server
datadog-metrics/mothership2 is DOWN, reason: Layer4
connection problem, info: "Connection refused", check duration: 0ms. 0 active and 0 backup servers left. 0
sessions active, 0 requeued, 0 remaining in queue.
haproxy[1808]: [ALERT] (1808) : backend 'datadog-metrics' has no server available!
```

These errors indicate that the Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy is not able to contact backend systems, possibly due to being blocked by a firewall or due to another network issue. Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy requires internet access to the Datadog intake endpoints. You can find the IP addresses for these endpoints [through the API][4].

For more information about outbound connections from the Agent, see the [Network Traffic][5] guide.

> If you're still unsure about your issue, you may reach out to the [Datadog support][6].

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
If you're still unsure about your issue, contact [Datadog support][6].
```

> ## FAQ

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
## Frequently asked questions
```

**1. Do the Datadog Agent and the Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy have to be on the same host?**

Yes, FIPS compliance is not retained if the Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy and the Datadog Agent are not on the same host.
Similarly, FIPS compliance is not retained if the `fips.enabled` option is not set to `true` in `datadog.yaml`.

> **2. Are customers responsible for hardening their host?**

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
**2. Who is responsible for hardening the host?**
```

> Yes, host security and hardening are customer responsibilities.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
You, the Datadog customer, are responsible for host security and hardening.
```

**5. Are all communications between the Cluster Agent and Node Agents FIPS supported?**

The Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy only secures communication originating from the Cluster Agent targeting the Datadog intake API endpoints. This means that other forms of communication terminating at the Cluster Agent or originating from the Cluster Agent are not covered by this solution.

**6. Is FIPS compliance retained if we rebuild or reconfigure the Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy to fit our deployment or testing needs?**

Even though rebuilding, reconfiguring, or modifying the Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy might be a technically working setup, Datadog cannot guarantee FIPS compliance if the Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy is not used exactly as explained in the documentation.

**7. My Datadog Agent is correctly sending data even though I didn't follow all of the installation steps listed above. Is my setup FIPS compliant?**

Datadog cannot guarantee FIPS compliance if the Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy is not used exactly as documented.

> This notably implies having your Datadog Agent configured to communicate to the Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy by setting the `fips.enabled` option, as well as having a running Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Correct configuration includes having your Datadog Agent configured to communicate to the Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy by setting the `fips.enabled` option, and having a running Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy.
```

**8. Are Datadog Agent release versions tied to Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy release versions?**

> The Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy releases are decoupled from Datadog Agent releases. Make sure to use the latest Datadog Agent and Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy versions

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
No, the Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy releases are decoupled from Datadog Agent releases. Use the latest of both Datadog Agent and Datadog Agent FIPS Proxy versions
```
